JIRA Clone


Overview
JIRA Clone is a web-based task management tool inspired by Atlassian's JIRA. It provides a simple and interactive Kanban-style board for users to create, manage, and track tasks. With drag-and-drop functionality, users can easily move tasks across different stages: "Planned," "In-Progress," and "Completed." This tool is designed to streamline task management, offering a user-friendly experience with essential features for organizing tasks.

Features
Create Tasks: Users can create new tasks by clicking the "Add New Task" button. A new task card is generated in the "Planned" column with default text.
Editable Task Cards: Task cards are fully editable, allowing users to input their specific task details directly on the board.
Delete Empty Tasks: If a task card remains empty after editing, it is automatically removed from the board to maintain cleanliness.
Drag-and-Drop Functionality: Tasks can be easily moved between the "Planned," "In-Progress," and "Completed" columns using drag-and-drop actions.
Responsive UI: The layout of the board adjusts based on the screen size, making it suitable for both desktop and mobile devices.
File Structure
index.html: Contains the main HTML structure of the task board.
style.css: Provides the styling for the board, columns, buttons, and task cards.
script.js: Contains JavaScript logic for adding tasks, editing them, and enabling drag-and-drop functionality.
Getting Started
To set up and run the project locally, follow these steps:

Clone the Repository

bash
Copy code
git clone https://github.com/pintu95045/jira-clone.git
Open the Project Open the project folder in your preferred code editor.

Run the Application Open index.html in any web browser. The application will load with an empty board, ready for you to start adding tasks.

Detailed Explanation of Code
1. index.html
The HTML file contains the basic structure of the task management board:

A header with an editable title for customization.
A button labeled "Add New Task" to create new task cards.
Three main columns: Planned, In-Progress, and Completed for organizing tasks based on their status.
2. style.css
The CSS file provides styles for the various components of the application:

Global Styles: Resets margins, padding, and box-sizing for consistency.
Body Styles: Sets a linear gradient background and general font styles.
Button Styles: Includes hover and active states for a better user experience.
Task Card Styles: Styles the draggable task cards with appropriate colors, borders, and spacing.
Column Styles: Defines the layout and appearance of the three main columns on the board.
3. script.js
The JavaScript file implements the core functionalities:

Adding a New Task: When the "Add New Task" button is clicked, a new task card is created with default text and added to the "Planned" column.
Editable Task Cards: Task cards are editable, and the default text is cleared when clicked.
Removing Empty Task Cards: If a task card remains empty (i.e., no content is added after removing the default text), it is automatically removed from the board.
Drag-and-Drop Functionality: Allows users to drag task cards from one column to another. The dragstart, dragend, dragover, dragenter, and drop events are used to manage this functionality.
How to Use
Adding Tasks:

Click on the "Add New Task" button.
A new task card appears in the "Planned" column. Click on it to edit the task details.
Moving Tasks:

Click and hold on a task card to drag it.
Drop it in either the "In-Progress" or "Completed" column as per the task's status.
Deleting Tasks:

Leave the task card empty, and it will automatically be removed from the board when it loses focus.
Future Enhancements
Some potential features that could be added to improve the project:

Persistent Storage: Save tasks to local storage or a database to retain them between sessions.
User Authentication: Allow multiple users to manage their own tasks separately.
Task Prioritization: Add features to prioritize tasks within the columns.
Advanced Customization: Allow users to customize the board, such as adding more columns or changing colors.
Conclusion
JIRA Clone is a lightweight, easy-to-use task management tool that helps users stay organized with their tasks. It provides a simplified experience similar to JIRA, making it a practical and educational project for beginners and a foundation for building more advanced task management applications.